In the previous notebook,
you learned how to build neural networks.
In this notebook, we're going to learn how to train them.
What we mean by training is that we want to feed an image to our network,
such as the image of this four here,
and we want our network to output a probability distribution such as this one,
where there is a large probability of the digit in the image of being a four.
As you learned in previous lessons,
in order to train a neural network,
you need a loss function.
This loss function is also sometimes called the cost function.
The goal of training a neural network is to adjust
its parameters so as to minimize the value of our loss function,
and we do this by using gradient descent and back-propagation.
So let's see how we can train our models using TensorFlow.
As always, we begin by importing the packages we're going to need.
These are the same packages and inputs we did in the previous notebook,
so there's nothing new here.
Next, we load our dataset.
In this notebook, we're also going to use the MNIST dataset.
So we're going to load it by using
TensorFlow datasets as we did in the previous notebook.
The next step is to create our pipeline.
This is the same pipeline we used in the previous notebook,
so there's nothing new here.
The next step is to build our model.
In this notebook, we're going to use a sequential model with these layers.
Once we have our model,
the next step is to train it.
But before we can train our model,
we need to set the parameters we're going to use to train it.
To configure our model for training,
we use the compile method.
The main parameters we need to specify in the compile method are the optimizer,
the loss function, and the metrics we're going to use.
In this notebook, we will be using the Adam optimizer.
Adam is an optimization of this stochastic gradient descent algorithm.
Remember, the optimizer is the algorithm
that we're going to use to update the weights of our model during training.
Next, let's take a look at the loss function we're going to use.
Remember, the loss function is what we use to measure the difference between
the true labels of the images in our dataset and the predictions made by our model.
In this notebook, we're going to use the sparse categorical cross entropy loss function.
We're going to use this loss function because the labels in our dataset are integers,
as we saw in the previous notebook.
On the other hand, if the labels of our dataset were one-hot encoded,
we'll have to use a different loss function.
Now let's look at the metrics parameter.
Here we use a list to indicate the metrics we want to evaluate during training.
In this notebook, we're going to measure
the accuracy of our model during the training process.
The accuracy calculates how often
our model's predictions match the true labels of the images in our dataset.
Before we train our model,
let's quickly take a look at the loss and accuracy values that we
get when we pass a single batch of images to our untrained model.
To do this, we're going to use the evaluate method.
The evaluate method compares the predicted output of
our model on the given image batch with the true labels of our images.
Then it returns the loss and accuracy values.
As we can see, we get a loss value of around 2.4 and an accuracy of about 6.3 percent.
Remember, at this stage,
our model is untrained,
so it'd only contains random weights and biases.
Now let's train our model and see how these numbers improve.
We expect that after training,
the last value will be much smaller and that the accuracy will be much higher.
Ideally, we want our loss value to be close to
zero and the accuracy will be very close to a 100 percent.